
SPEAKER 4 0:00:00
I'll pour this pestle on his ear, so will I make the net that will entail them all. It's an adult, Yago, who says that in Othello. And it's grown-ups that Machiavelli was writing about. When he wrote the prints, his book about manipulating others and seizing power. Notice he titled the book The Prince, not The Little Prince. The Little Prince is actually by somebody else. If you don't know that. But in our American lives, the real era of intrigue and manipulation for most of us is not adulthood. It's adolescence. When our social circle is at its most, constricting. Today on our program, a story of betrayal. And of someone who holds David Kuresh like powers over others. And who is only in the seventh grade. From WB Easy in Chicago. It's your radio playhouse. I'm Ira Glass. But before we get into the body of our story, we will try as adults to manipulate you a little bit. And put Central. Let's check in with Pledge Central. Shirley Jihad. 
SPEAKER 8 0:01:23
Hi, Ira Glass. Hi. We're trying to manipulate the radio playhouse listeners. 
SPEAKER 4 0:01:27
Well, I guess, manipulate has a tune of a negative connotation. 
SPEAKER 8 0:01:31
Oh, encourage, Kajol, Lure, maybe. 
SPEAKER 4 0:01:34
Yeah. 
SPEAKER 8 0:01:35
And we have all these entices. 
SPEAKER 4 0:01:36
How about entices? Entices are very... Seduce. Come on, baby. You're in a row. You're in such a row here. 
SPEAKER 1 0:01:43
Sure. 
SPEAKER 8 0:01:44
Well, let's play. Let's play stuff. 
SPEAKER 4 0:01:46
OK. Well, I can tell you. We have special. Yeah, what is the phone number? 
SPEAKER 8 0:01:50
We've got to seduce them with this phone number. 312-832-316-0. Stop the music dramatically. Yeah, no. I save the number. Do it again. 312-832-316-0. Maybe a little radio hypnotism. 312-832-316-0. Call that number to pledge your support. 
SPEAKER 4 0:02:07
And I just want to say that we are so anxious to get you to call. We have very special premiums that we're offering during the coming hour that are available at no other time during the drive. We have three and a half or four depending on how you count them. The very first one, the very first one, I'm going to play a little clip of these. These are all audio things. We have, well, how did we get with this? A couple of weeks. Well, very quickly. Play it. Explain it. Explain it. Explain it. OK. Well, one of them is we have a cassette of recent work by David Sideris. A lot. Much of it heard here on your radio playhouse. Some of it heard on morning edition. This is all new work, including two radio dramas by the Pine Tree Gang, which appear here on your radio playhouse. That's one thing. Another thing is that we have this very odd CD called Shut Up Little Man, which listeners to the show heard. It's an audio verite of these two men recorded through the walls of their apartment as they argued with each other. And finally, we have this thing. A couple of weeks ago, two weeks ago, we had a show where Julia Swini told the story of getting cancer. And she told the story of her self-gaining cancer and of her brother getting cancer. And she told them it stand up comedy. And she was telling this in a place called Uncaberay. It's a club in Los Angeles where essentially comics come each week. And they tell what are basically sort of comic diary versions of their week. And Uncaberay has a CD that's really pretty wonderful with some well-known people and some not-so-well-known people. And here's a sample. This is a, they have about 10 minutes of Julia Swini's cancer stories. Here is, here's a sample of that. 
SPEAKER 5 0:03:39
OK. So we're in the doctor's office. And Mike was doing really great and was one, doing one, you know, like responding really well to the treatment. But he's had so many spinal taps that they can't get into his spinal column anymore. So the doctor said, because it's in my mom, my dad's reading about the plague in India, because that's a good diversion. And my mom is, you know, looking at the doctors and saying, now he looks single. And this doctor is in, he says, you know, Michael, we can't get into your spinal column anymore. So we're thinking about putting a shunt in your head. My brother goes, why didn't, and he goes to the shunt, and I go, well, shunt, like an artificial opening to the brain. And Mike goes, well, where would this shunt be? And the doctor goes, well, the best place we found is one of the foreheads. And Mike goes, if you think I am going to get a faucet put into my forehead, I'm already 90 pounds and I have no hair. I'm not going to walk around for a year with a faucet sticking out of my forehead. And my mom goes, no, I think it's like a spigot. 
SPEAKER 4 0:04:42
All right, so that's Julia Swini. If you want that and more and more dyranchies from Janine Garafogo and people who seem less well-known, but there's Julia Swini, Janine Garafogo, Beth Lapidas, Bob Goldfway, Taylor Negra, and Dana Gould, other people, ask for that when you call 832-3160. Show you're still there, right? 
SPEAKER 8 0:05:03
832-316-0. 
SPEAKER 4 0:05:05
And show you what is the magic word? We haven't even gotten to the extra special. What is the magic word? 
SPEAKER 8 0:05:09
The special 495 for $4.95. You can super size it. 
SPEAKER 4 0:05:14
You can super size it. That's right. If you make the $60 pledge and just say super size it for another 495, you get more LaBamba 
SPEAKER 8 0:05:21
than you can handle. 
SPEAKER 4 0:05:22
Here we go. I think I've got it. This one starts kind of so. This is a punk LaBamba. We have a little collection of all sorts of LaBambas. It's one of the most covered songs in music. We have the Mormon Tabernacle Choir. We have punk versions. We have Neodiamond. It's kind of a surf version. Again, we want you to pledge. We want to please you. 
SPEAKER 8 0:05:48
We want you to pledge and then to super size it. 
SPEAKER 4 0:05:50
There you go. 
SPEAKER 8 0:05:51
312-832-316-0. Come on, go for extra fries and an extra large drink. 312-832-316-0. Sorry, Ira. 
SPEAKER 4 0:06:00
No, that's okay. And so the idea is $60 for one of the premium and $64.95 for one of the premium plus. 
SPEAKER 8 0:06:07
90 minutes of LaBamba. Take it on vacation with you, right? 
SPEAKER 4 0:06:10
It makes a fine summertime present for anyone. 
SPEAKER 8 0:06:13
That's right. 312-832-316-0. Call out a pledge, your support for your radio playhouse. 
SPEAKER 4 0:06:20
Okay, sure. I'll check back with you in a bit. 
SPEAKER 8 0:06:21
Thanks, Ira. 
SPEAKER 4 0:06:23
So let's get to today's story on this radio show. This is a story of enemies. But some of the bitterest enemies are people who used to be close friends. And our story begins with the friendship of these two boys named Bob and Dave. And today's program will be in 4X. Act 1. Dave's love. Act 2. Dave's hate. Act 3. Dave today. Act 4. Another Dave. Then another Dave is David Sidaris, actually. We have a story by David Sidaris. Coming up. So, Act 1. Our story takes place in a small town somewhere in the East Coast. 
SPEAKER 1 0:07:09
Dave and I became friends in 4th grade. And we're friends through 6th grade. And I have to describe him physically because that's a huge part of his personality. He was, and he still is an extremely wiry person, very thin. He looks emaciated. And he also, his skin is like a jaundiced yellow color. He was always very acne. Just very pale, pasty. And he just looked sick. I don't really know how we became friends. We were in class together in grade school. But as things progressed into 5th grade, it became pretty clear that our friendship was the most intense friendship in the class. We would talk on the phone at least once a day and for hours. We would just talk for hours and just make each other laugh so hard. And that was why we always got separated in class was just because we weren't troublemakers. We just made each other laugh a lot. We'd very similar senses of humor. The scatological jokes were the primary jokes. And we, I was just thinking about this today when I was thinking, I remember this one thing that we used to do, which we did obsessively. Which is the, it's embarrassing to say it. But we were obsessed with the words poop and pee. And we made this little thing where I would say poop and he would say pee. And then he would say we. And then I would say gilly g. And so it would go kind of like poop, pee, we, gilly g. And we said this over and over and over again. And we tried, we used to just take books and just insert the words poop and pee everywhere. And we was like the one word that was just, for some reason that was like our rallying call that was like our motto. I don't know, I mean we just said it all the time. Just we, we used to do that all the time. We, some of the other stuff that we had in common, we were, our favorite group was the Village People. And we used to listen to the Village People all the time and just totally obsess about them. Having no idea what they were saying about at all. And the duxa hazard was another one. And, and Star Wars. Those were very big things. And sports. I basically discovered sexuality through him. And we used to play spin the bottle in his room and we would take off an article of clothing for when it would land on us. And it was the first time we'd ever been naked in front of another person except for our parents. And it was petrifying. But it was also just this whole discovery period of just seeing another, another, another man naked there. And it became this whole game that we played often. And we just would revel in the fact of just standing there in front of each other, totally naked, assuming these characters just like, you know, hi Mr. Jones, how are you? Nice to meet you with businessmen and everything. They're standing there completely but naked. And so terrified that we were ever going to get caught because his parents were always home. They're always in the house and everything. And we were just so afraid that someone was going to knock on the door. And the one time that was the biggest scare was he, Dave can basically get, could get anybody to do anything that he wanted them to do. And he had a camera and was just, these times when I would go to his house were just fully documented events. You know, he was so, he's very anal retinive. And he loved just documenting everything he was going on. So he would have a camera and take a lot of pictures. And he wanted me to pull down my pants and take a picture of me with my pants down. And I was just refusing to do it. I would not let it be caught on film. And he was just insisting and he went through this entire, I mean, he just was trying to coax me for so long, just telling me all these different things that he was going to do for me. And just saying, oh, nobody's going to see it. You know, I'll, and he came up with this whole scheme of how nobody would see the film and everything. And just these elaborate, elaborate plans on how nobody would see these pictures. And I just refused, kept refusing and refusing and refusing. And then finally, at the end of it, he was like, he was like, all right, just, just take down your pants anyway. I wouldn't take a picture. I promise. And I still didn't believe him. And he was like, look, I promise, I promise, I promise. This went on for like an hour of him trying to coax me to take my pants down. And he promised me, and bottom of his heart that he was not going to take a picture. And so I was like, fine. So I like, unbuck in my belt. And I unbuck in my pants. And I pulled down my zipper. I just flew up, whipped up in my pants. And I had my underwear on. And then I put it myself all back together again. And when I had my pants open, he took a picture. And I was like, oh. And I was terrified. Because when you're that age, when you're like 11 and 12 years old, you can't, you can't go in and get your pictures developed yourself and pay for them and get them. And I thought somebody's going to get these pictures developed and somebody's going to see them. So weeks later, I was going up to his house again. And in the car, going up to his house, his mother was driving. He was like, I got the pictures back. And I said, oh my God, and he was like, you're not going to believe what's on there. And I said, but what can be? I didn't, you didn't see anything. And he was like, I know, but you have to see this. Because it's there. And I was like, but it can't be because I didn't take my pants down. And he was like, I know, but it's there. It's there. You have to see it. He pulls out the pictures. And I looked at it and my penis was hanging out there. And I was like, but I didn't do it. And he was like, you must have. 
SPEAKER 4 0:13:03
And I said, but I know I didn't. 
SPEAKER 1 0:13:04
I know I just opened my pants. And he said, you must have done it. Maybe it just fell out or something. And I said, but it can't be. And we racked our brains just trying to figure out what had happened. Because I knew that I hadn't pulled my underwear down. So that night we were at a football game, at a high school football game. And we were looking at the pictures against examining them. We were way up into the bleachers in a corner. And we took them on. We were looking at them. And we were trying to explain what had happened. And finally, we figured out that it was the inside of my belt that looked like my penis. And we were like, oh, and so I was completely relieved. But I made him, I watched him just tear up the picture into like a thousand pieces. And went through this whole elaborate method to like bury the pieces in the bottom of a trash can at this football stadium. And I was still petrified that somebody was going to find them and like piece them together. The point that it started to change was as we were going into sixth grade, we were constantly being separated in class. And that's around the time when people start to realize that there's a difference between someone who's straight and someone who's gay. And there was just grumblings happening. People were accusing us of being homosexual. And we weren't in any way. But we also knew of all the things that we had done with each other and each other's presence. And I think when people started to think that we were gay, we suddenly, that just rose to the surface. And we realized that there was a cool thing and a not cool thing. And we were definitely not cool in the friendship that we were in. And that's also around that time when, in my town at least, and I think a lot of small towns, is where sports just become the most important thing in your life. And I was not a good athlete then at all. Dave was a good athlete. And Dave organized a big football party one weekend, where we were going to go out there and play football and have a sleepover. And then the next day, play more football. Dave just organized this thing unbelievably. He had jerseys printed up with numbers and names on them. He had teams with rosters. He had practice for his team with plays. There was a playbook. This is for a little football game, three on three football, or four on four football. Touch football. And every single minute was decided upon beforehand by him as to what we would do, where we would be, what we would eat, the food we would eat. When we would play football, it was all timed out. He is so organized and a little attentive about it. I don't remember very well, but I can't imagine that I played tremendously well. And I was thinking about this today. I was trying to think of the moment when everything changed. And I'm almost positive. It was that event. It was the football party. And immediately after that, he just totally stopped talking to me. 
SPEAKER 4 0:16:30
How Dave turned the class against Bob, as the show continues. 
SPEAKER 6 0:16:41
Now have you read of the famous King in Able? Once they were in a scandal that shook down. Came to came, my de jealous of brother Able. So he rose up and smoked Able down. Now the Lord she was hopping mad. And yet he was Brennan said, to think that he had a man like King. The Lord spoke and showed his wrath. And came walked the path that led to a life full of pains. And you can't run from the shadow of retribution. If you're bad, then you've got to pay for your wrong. 
SPEAKER 1 0:17:35
Let yourself take a lesson from King in Able. Don't lament, be content. Don't resent what the Lord has sent. 
SPEAKER 6 0:17:46
And you'll find that you're bound to get along. 
SPEAKER 4 0:17:55
Well, it is your radio playhouse. And we do want you to call 832-316-0. And area code 312. Hey, Shirley, how are you there? 
SPEAKER 8 0:18:06
Hey, Ira Glass. 
SPEAKER 4 0:18:07
Hey, honey. 
SPEAKER 8 0:18:08
This is an intriguing little tale. 
SPEAKER 4 0:18:09
Well, as we try to present here on this our little radio playhouse radio show, are people calling? 
SPEAKER 8 0:18:17
People are calling 312-832-316-0. I don't have the exact count yet, but the phones are ringing. And people are super sizing their pledges. Wait, wait, wait. 
SPEAKER 4 0:18:26
You said the magic word, which means I have to get rid of this music. Uh-oh. And bring on. Here's, you recognize this, Shirley? 
SPEAKER 8 0:18:34
This could be, it's familiar. It's familiar, yet foreign. 
SPEAKER 4 0:18:41
This is the Mormon tabernacle choir version of LaBamba, which appears to you when you say the word super size. 
SPEAKER 8 0:18:47
Super size your pledge for 495, and you get 90 minutes of LaBamba. 
SPEAKER 4 0:18:53
Blessing or a curse. And remember, our three special premium. One is the Uncaberacid, which is basically comics telling stories about their own lives. The second thing is the Shut Up Little Man CD. And the third thing is David Sideris, including lots of material heard on this program. But also, for example, the Christmas, the... 
SPEAKER 8 0:19:11
Senta Land Diary. No, not now. 
SPEAKER 4 0:19:13
No, no, no. I feel like we've given that away too many times. But this year, David did, I'm sorry. But this year, David did a story from winning edition that we had to cut about three minutes out to fit it into a morning edition segment. People who buy the cassette will get the uncut version. And it's the story about how he was having a bad Christmas one year until a sister brought home a prostitute who she knew from work. 
SPEAKER 3 0:19:32
What were the prison guards really like, and you asked? Which two liked better? Spending the night with strange guys who were working in a cafeteria. Tiffany tried on Donna's shoes while Gretchen modeled her jacket. 
SPEAKER 4 0:19:44
Donna, the Christmas whore. 
SPEAKER 8 0:19:47
Oh, my. Ho, ho, ho. 
SPEAKER 4 0:19:48
Yeah, ho, ho, ho. And what's the number again? 
SPEAKER 8 0:19:50
The 312-832. 
SPEAKER 4 0:19:51
Heartwarming story. 
SPEAKER 8 0:19:52
316-0. Like this one we're in the middle of. 
SPEAKER 4 0:19:55
Where are the whole family? 
SPEAKER 8 0:19:56
312-832-316-0. A slew of premiums, all kinds of great comedy and performance and storytelling and wonderful music. 90-minute cassette of La Bamba in many varieties. 312-832-316-0. If you say super size it, those volunteers will know what you mean. 
SPEAKER 4 0:20:15
In fact, you can get any premium that the station is selling. Anything, anything you've heard all day and that you're going to hear all week and just say super size it only during this show. 495, you get that La Bamba tape. 
SPEAKER 8 0:20:25
Your radio playhouse. 312-832-316-0. 
SPEAKER 4 0:20:28
Check back with you later, Shirley. 
SPEAKER 8 0:20:29
Thanks, Ira. 
SPEAKER 4 0:20:30
Act two, Dave's hatred. Dave and Bob were best friends. And now Dave started using all the tactics that adults use in political situations, in power situations. All the tactics one uses to turn people against one another, whispering in ears, things like that. Bob, who is now a theater director in New York City, by the way, Bob tells the story. 
SPEAKER 1 0:20:56
I remember going into class in seventh grade on the first day of school and him not talking to me and everybody just wondering. I mean, the whole school was wondering why there was this big fight going on between Dave and Bob. And I remember just not having an answer for anybody. I used to tell them to ask Dave, I had no idea. And I used to tell people that he just stopped talking to me. And I remember that he became completely bent on turning everyone against me, the whole school. And he did it very well because he's so organized and because he's so manipulative. And I saw him and I saw him telling people to say things to me. He was the one who formed the I hate. They used to call me Kooz then. And he was the one who formed the I hate Kooz Club. He used to, he used to, he never did anything to me himself. He would never come up to me and make fun of me. He would never come up to me and hit me or he would never assault me personally. But he would just get everyone else to do it for him. So he would send people to say things to me. You know, I remember one time in the lunchroom, Sam saying, have you ever been caught masturbating? And of course, either answer is you damn yourself. If you answer yes or if you answer no. And I remember hearing Dave tell him to ask me that. I used to just get made fun of horrendously by everyone. People would make fun of the way that I chewed at lunch. People would make fun of the way that I laughed. People would make fun of the way that I coughed, that I sneezed. People would make fun of the way that I walked. There was just this teasing. But that makes it even sound less violent than it was. It was just a mocking. It was a very pointed mocking on everyone's part. I remember sitting alone at the lunch table with no one to talk to. And just wanting so badly for no one to turn their attention to me because I knew the attention would be negative. I remember just not understanding what was going on. I had been in such a sweet position with this person. We had such a good friendship and then all of a sudden everyone had just turned against me. And he wasn't like a pied piper. He was so subtle and he was so quiet. And he never really, I don't think he ever had a friendship with people like he had with me. He was just able to organize people into these different factions. He would just say, you know, go over to Kusen, just shove him into a locker. And they'd go do it. That was the worst period I think of my entire life. It was that period. I used to go home from school and cry after school. I used to go to my dog and hug my dog and say, you were my only friend in the world. Then he started to kind of needle me. I remember one thing that he did was there was this guy, Mike, in my class. And Mike was what we called in my hometown a scummer, which meant that he was on welfare. He perhaps didn't have a pair of pants for every day of the week. He was very smart, which was struck against him at that age. And he just didn't fit in. He was a real geek. And so Dave organized this fight between Mike and I, a fist fight to prove who was the bigger faggot. Whoever would lose was the bigger faggot. And he positioned us. He spun it so there was no way I could not fight. If I didn't have this fight, then I would just be, things would just get worse for me. Things would get worse. I mean, Mike was like at the bottom of the barrel. And I was there with him. And Dave had to prove that I was below him. And so he organized this whole fight. And everyone in the class was like, you're gonna fight Mike? You're gonna fight Mike. And I finally just conceded. And I conceded to fight him. And Dave organized the whole event. It was to happen at this playground. And we went and he tried to get this whole audience to come and see it. Unfortunately, nobody came but him. Well, I guess fortunately nobody came but him and one other person. And so Mike and I went there. And neither of us wanted to fight each other. And I always had any reason in the world to fight each other. So I just remember standing there facing him, just like laughing, just like, what are we supposed to do? We're standing here. We've been forced into this just to save our own souls. And now we have to like inflict pain on each other. And we stood there for the longest time. And Dave kept trying to push us into fighting. He was saying, come on, just throw a punch. Just throw a punch. Just start. We waited for the longest time. And then finally I was just like, this is ridiculous. So I went up and I shoved him. And then we started to fight. We weren't really into fighting, but we had to do it then. And I pushed him at one point and he fell backwards and he heard his wrist. And I got on top of him and I held his wrist. And I remember saying to him, do you give up? And he wouldn't give up. And I was holding his wrist back. And each time I kept asking him if he was going to give up and he kept saying no. And each time he'd say no, I'd bend his wrist back a little bit more. And he was crying in pain. And I kept saying, I'm going to bend it back. I'm going to bend it back. I'm going to bend it back. Thinking, I don't want to break this person's wrist. I have no reason to break this person's wrist. And I was faced at that moment with either giving up and just getting kicked even more. Or going ahead with really hurting this person and hoping that it would save me in some way. And I broke his wrist. He came in the next day into school with Caston. I don't know how his family paid for his cast. And everybody saw that and said, You idiot, who's what did you do? 
SPEAKER 4 0:27:31
You idiot. 
SPEAKER 1 0:27:32
And they just made it even worse. I just didn't understand. I didn't know what was going on. That's the most frustrating thing for me. Even still today. I always thought it was me. I always thought it was something I was doing. I thought it was the way that I wore my clothes. I thought it was the shoes that I wore. I thought it was the way that I laughed. I remember. And I remember I tried to change these things. I tried not to laugh so loud. I tried to cough differently. I mean, they made fun of the most minuscule things. They're just human like chewing. You know, if they would have noticed the way that I breathed, they would have made fun of that. I remember I tried to lift, tried lifting weights. And it was just, it was impossible because there was nothing I could do to make them change their minds. You know, if I lifted weights, it was the way that I lifted weights. Or it was just something, they would come up with something. It was just a no-win situation, but it was always, and I knew how, I guess I knew how smart he was. And I knew how well he knew me. And I guess all of a sudden I thought that he had seen all these things in me that were just wrong. And just so not cool. I remember very clearly there was a moment that the clouds just cleared and everything became possible. I went to the Pennsylvania Governor's School for the Arts in my junior year. The summer between my junior and senior year, that was when I met people who were actors like I was, who were my age, and who respected me. And I remember very clearly I, it was after lunch and people who were in my theater class had, we were going out of cafeteria, and I'd forgotten my bag in the cafeteria. And I went, and I said, oh, just wait for me one second, I just want to go get my bag. And I went down to the cafeteria and got my bag, and I came back up, and they were still there waiting for me. And I remember so distinctly remembering, oh my God, these people, they waited for me. That meant so much to me, because I felt like I'm not this idiot, I'm not this geek, I'm not a person who everyone should hate. I'm actually a pretty good human being and people like me. Sometimes I feel like there's some justice in the fact that I am surrounded now by many people who love me and respect me. And I don't know how many people he has in his life. But the tables have turned in that way. And when I go back home and I see people looking at me, the way that they looked at me in high school, I think there is some justice in this, because those people are probably, some of those people I've heard are in bad situations with their families, they've got wives, they don't love, they've been through divorces, they don't have any friends, they're in the same bar they were in four or five years ago, drinking the same beer they drank, and their gut is a little bigger, and their nose is a little redder, and they just look tired. And I feel like my life is in pretty good shape and unhappy, and that's the Swedish revenge. And last Christmas, I ran into him at a mall, and he looked more jaundiced and more sickly than ever. 
SPEAKER 4 0:31:15
Bob says that it was because Dave made him an outcast in junior high school, that he ended up spending a lot of time with the theater teacher, because the other kids wouldn't talk to him. And this teacher put him in plays and took him to plays in New York City, showing him that there was a bigger world outside their hometown. 
SPEAKER 1 0:31:42
If it weren't for Dave, I would not be doing what I'm doing right now. There's no way. I don't know what I would have been doing, but because of what he did to me, he put, I found theater, and it's been a really good life so far. 
SPEAKER 4 0:32:00
Bob's a director in Manhattan. Dave gives his version of the story, in Act 3 of your radio playhouse. 
SPEAKER 6 0:32:11
Now, I don't dig you, took you from a friend, and thought you were my pal, but now I've found out you're trying to drive McGown. 
SPEAKER 1 0:32:32
All shut eyes ain't sleep, and all good vibes ain't gone. I'm helped to myself, trying to do me wrong. Do you call that a buddy? Oh no, could that be your buddy? 
SPEAKER 6 0:32:51
Oh no, I'm gonna shoot my buddy. 
SPEAKER 1 0:32:56
Yeah, yeah. 
SPEAKER 4 0:33:02
Hey, Sheryl is your husband? 
SPEAKER 8 0:33:05
Yeah, hey, Roman. 
SPEAKER 4 0:33:06
I love the way that when he says I'm gonna shoot my buddy, the boy. And the band just goes like, yeah, they get so excited. Go in a weird moment. 
SPEAKER 8 0:33:16
This is kind of some parts of it are painful, I wrote a listen to. I bet some people have memories of difficulties in their youth. 
SPEAKER 4 0:33:23
I think if you want to share, we're gonna have to set aside more time than it is. 
SPEAKER 8 0:33:25
Oh, well, I'm not going to share. Don't worry. I won't. Okay. I won't. What's okay? But you can call 312-832-3160, and you'll feel absolved of a lot of things. 312-832-3160. 
SPEAKER 4 0:33:40
And what's that magic word? I keep forgetting. 
SPEAKER 8 0:33:42
It's the number to call. And the magic word, once you call that number, and all the volunteers in that pleasure will know when you say super size it. 
SPEAKER 4 0:33:49
It's a disco version of La Bomba. Sure. 
SPEAKER 8 0:33:55
And all of the volunteers are dirty dancing right now. Yeah, it's a disloving thing. 
SPEAKER 4 0:34:00
That's right. If you say the thing about La Bomba, if you say super size it for 495 extra, any premium this radio station has, including our three special premium tonight, the Ancaberais CD, the David Sideris tape, and the Shut Up One O Man CD, they will throw in 90 minutes of La Bomba, various La Bombas on top of it. 
SPEAKER 8 0:34:21
A variety of La Bombas. 312-832-3160, the number to call, to support your radio playhouse. We are looking for new members here on WBZ in Chicago, and what better place to look than a new program, your radio playhouse. A fantastic, new addition to WBZ's lineup. 312-832-3160. If you've been catching the program, the last few shows, and enjoying it, then give us a call now. 312-832-3160. 
SPEAKER 4 0:34:49
And surely, let me play another sample from this Ancaberais CD. Again, this is, it's this unusual form which isn't exactly stand-up comedy. The comics tell stories about their own lives every week in Los Angeles. If you were to fly to Los Angeles and go to this club, it would cost you hundreds and hundreds of dollars. But for just $60 pledge, we're going to give you a CD and for $64.95, a CD plus this fabulous music. And here's a sample of one of the bits that just played quick with the people they were getting. This is a guy named Terry Sweeney, no relation to Julia Sweeney. 
SPEAKER 9 0:35:20
I used to go to this like the Mindshaft, which was in New York, another of the New York, which is much too hardcore for me. And people would be like, really dressed in these leather harnesses, leather caps, and dog collars, and totally done up. And I would have tried to put on, you know, some black cardiganter. 
SPEAKER 8 0:35:35
Ah! 
SPEAKER 9 0:35:40
The mock turtle knack I thought. A show, I can do the scene. And I saw these two man that were just so hard-core and wouldn't have had the other one on a leash and the nipples were pinched, and things were hanging. And all kinds of apparatus they couldn't even identify. And so, I inched close to them and I went like, I wanna hear what these two were talking about. And I inched behind him and this guy said, I just love that angel cake. It was so moist. I'm the recipe where mother heads it on a court. I will write mother and have her sand. 
SPEAKER 4 0:36:18
832-3160. 
SPEAKER 8 0:36:20
832-316-0-3128-32316-0. The number to call, pleasure support for your radio playhouse WBEZ's brand new Groovy Friday evening show. 312-832-316-0. 
SPEAKER 4 0:36:34
Again, these are some of these that are only being offered tonight. Surely we'll check back with you in a couple minutes. 
SPEAKER 8 0:36:39
Thanks, Ira. 
SPEAKER 4 0:36:40
Call, please, call, please, call. We are trying to figure out stuff that you might enjoy now as ever. Well, act three. Dave's response. It's an odd thing actually as a reporter, calling a stranger on the phone and asking him to defend things he did 15 years before as a teenager. Who amongst us wants to get that call? So I reached Dave at his parents' house where he still lives. And he's devout Christian now. He writes an edit's a Christian magazine for young people. And he says that he's never been happier. No, he does not really think about Bob very often. No, Bob is not a big figure in his life. No, he does not remember the fight with Mike. Yes, he remembers being enemies with Bob in the seventh grade. But no, he wasn't sure why. The best that he could remember. Bob was to blame. Bob, by becoming friends with someone else. 
SPEAKER 2 0:37:39
The city had, and they were just doing these other things. And it was just like, you know, I got really mad in everything. And it was just like going from like best friends to like worse. If I'm trying to remember this. 
SPEAKER 4 0:37:52
And he remembers it. Is this also accurate? Or do you remember this as well? He remembers you turning other people against him. He says that at one point there was actually a I hate coups club that you started. 
SPEAKER 2 0:38:07
Oh gosh. I'm, again, I don't even remember that. But now that you say it, I, you know, gosh, that's what a terrible person. I must speak to that. That's horrible. But, oh man, I actually kind of remember that now. That's pretty lame. 
SPEAKER 4 0:38:25
What do you remember of it? 
SPEAKER 2 0:38:27
I don't. That's just it. I just, you know, when you said the name, it's like, oh my gosh, that was, did I really do that? I have no idea. 
SPEAKER 4 0:38:38
I mean, when he describes you during that period, he felt like you had a kind of David Kuresh like power over others. 
SPEAKER 2 0:38:45
Well, I mean, we were in high school. I'm trying to think of a, huh. 
SPEAKER 4 0:38:50
Can you, can you imagine yourself being seen in that life? 
SPEAKER 2 0:38:54
No, not really at all. You know, looking back now, I feel like I was always the one that was like really totally at the bottom of the social level or whatever you want to call it in school. And, you know, I'm thinking, well, why would it cause me to do something like that? Because, you know, obviously to make myself look better or something, because, I don't know, but that's pretty bad. 
SPEAKER 4 0:39:19
I'll tell you the way that Bob remembers and interprets what happened between the two of you. He doesn't remember it as being the kind of thing where he became friends with somebody else. He says that you guys are really, really close, really close friends. And then when everybody hit adolescence, a really typical thing happened to you, and that is that other boys started accusing you of being gay. And that you publicly just wanted to put a stop to it. 
SPEAKER 2 0:39:53
Gosh, you know, I'm honestly, I cannot even remember this. You have a much better memory than me. I know we were close and everything. I don't ever ever remember any accusations like that. No. And I'm trying to think too. I'm sitting here trying to drag it out of my memory. I was like, why did we start fighting in the first place? 
SPEAKER 4 0:40:17
Actually, the thing that is making me think about is in the case of a story like this, I think it's easier for a person who was the injured person. If they were the injured person to remember something, then the person who did something hurtful, because I think it's so much more embarrassing to remember yourself as being someone who did something hurtful. 
SPEAKER 2 0:40:38
Right. Now I work with kids and everything that are about that age, and they get in their little spat sometimes. And I just, you know, we just always go to the Bible together, and I try to say, well, look, this person is your friend. You know, we just had innocent like this last week. This one girl, and her friends all of a sudden just wouldn't talk to her. And I felt really bad for this person because she's always like one of the gang. And I'm thinking, I gotta get a hold of her and see what's wrong and everything, and get all the people back together because this isn't good. 
SPEAKER 1 0:41:16
Hello. 
SPEAKER 4 0:41:20
Hi, it's Bob there. Yes, it's Bob. So after I spoke with Dave, I called Bob. I guess you could figure that out for yourself. You describe him going and sort of whispering in people's ear, yago-like, saying go do this, go do that, walk up to Bob and say this to him, push him in the locker, and he remembers none of that. 
SPEAKER 1 0:41:41
I remember that very clearly. 
SPEAKER 4 0:41:44
Well, he remembers none of it. 
SPEAKER 1 0:41:46
I remember it very clearly. I mean, those things, that is stuff that scarred me for years, and years and years. And it's no surprise that I remember, and he doesn't. 
SPEAKER 4 0:41:59
You know, thinking about what happened to you, just thinking about it over the last few days, it's really made me think about what it means to love somebody. You know how, you know how when you love somebody, you're always more aware of what they do in the room than anybody else. You know? And because you guys really loved each other, anything that he would do in the room would be something that would be more apparent to you than what anybody else was doing. And would seem more important. And so if somebody else were just as influential over other kids in the class, well you were always be more aware of what Dave did. 
SPEAKER 1 0:42:33
Yeah, he was, I would say all of his activities were illuminated more to me than to anyone else because of that. But I do know that he was the focal point for all of this antagonism against me throughout those years. No doubt. I mean, he generated it. It didn't just come from nowhere. 
SPEAKER 4 0:43:03
It's an odd thing to have a profound experience with somebody else, a really intimate experience. And you remember every detail, you know? And the other person remembers none of it. And so you left there alone, you know? When I talked to Bob, I asked him about this over and over and over again because I thought it was such a particular kind of moment for him. But he didn't really take it that way. 
SPEAKER 1 0:43:33
I don't know. I have no reason to feel lonely about this. You know, I don't expect Dave to remember it. What you're saying sounds like I should have an amosity towards him because of what he did to me. 
SPEAKER 4 0:43:45
No, I don't mean animosity at all. Actually, in fact, just the opposite. Simply, simply someone else to confirm that it happened, that it happened in that it had a meaning. 
SPEAKER 1 0:43:55
Yeah. Yeah. You may be right. Now I feel alone. I mean, yeah, I would be... I can see myself saying, but Dave, don't you remember this was a massive event in my life? 
SPEAKER 4 0:44:23
For me, you know, for me, it's like I feel like, okay, I see it's like as you were talking, I was thinking, this is the Gabrielle Garcia Marquez part of the story, where like, is memory lost? Does memory, you know, does memory last? Does it mean anything if, you know, an entire nation forgets what it was? Or, you know, does it mean anything if we are the only one who remembers an experience and then we are lost and so that experience is never remembered? Does it mean anything? Yeah. You're saying really, no. Maybe it meant something to me, but no, not really. 
SPEAKER 1 0:44:54
And I can assure you that I am like, is it, I'm going to pronounce his name wrong, it's Jorge Luis Borges. Like he says, I'm remembering the last time I remembered it, which was the memory of the last time I remembered it, which is the memory of the last time I remembered it, which it increasingly gets more and more dramatic. And the moment gets refined down to, it gets to still down into something, which becomes very palatable and very understandable. 
SPEAKER 4 0:45:28
One loose end in the whole thing, of course, was the friend. The mysterious friend, remember Dave said that Bob was to blame for them becoming enemies in the seventh grade. By making friends with a guy who we were told is named Mike, though not the Mike, whose wrist Bob later broke. 
SPEAKER 1 0:45:47
I can sort of understand that. I know which Mike you're referring to and I know that we did start to become friends then, but the friendship that I had with Dave was always the strongest friendship that I ever had up until probably five years ago when I met the person who I consider my best friend now. He always used to use the term false friend in seventh grade. I remember that clearly he used to always say I was just a false friend. 
SPEAKER 4 0:46:15
Meaning what? 
SPEAKER 1 0:46:16
I don't know what does it mean? It means you were a friend, but now it's fake or it's... 
SPEAKER 4 0:46:25
See, to me, false friend means that he thinks that you betrayed him. 
SPEAKER 1 0:46:29
It could be. It could be. God, wouldn't that be awful if like it all boiled down to one event where he felt like me and Mike were becoming friends? And it could have been cleared up in just one conversation. 
SPEAKER 4 0:46:46
Then it was a complete misunderstanding. 
SPEAKER 1 0:46:48
Then it was just a total tiny misunderstanding that could have been cleared up. 
SPEAKER 4 0:46:53
It happens all the time. Wouldn't it be... I mean just... 
SPEAKER 1 0:46:57
Boy, I would just love to see what my life would have been like if that would have happened. 
SPEAKER 4 0:47:05
In Act 4, another perspective on the whole thing from David Sederis. First let's go to Pledge Central, Shirley G. Hodd. 
SPEAKER 8 0:47:26
I reglass. 
SPEAKER 4 0:47:27
Hi, honey. 
SPEAKER 8 0:47:28
Hi, sweetie. 
SPEAKER 4 0:47:29
I understand that we're having problems with the phones. 
SPEAKER 8 0:47:31
We have demons, demons on the Pledge lines. Maybe Bob or somebody has infiltrated here. Anyway, the number is 312-832-316-0. If you're having trouble getting through, please be patient and do not give up on us. 312-832-316-0 to pledge your support for your radio playhouse on WBEZ Chicago. Now I understand some people are calling and it's ringing, but we're not hearing it ring here. And eventually we do hear it ring, but that's after several minutes. 
SPEAKER 4 0:48:02
So if you're having trouble getting through and if you don't get through to the exact moment when our show ends and you want some of the premium from this hour and the phones are working, ask for them and we'll give them to you. 
SPEAKER 8 0:48:13
That's right. 312-832-316-0. 
SPEAKER 4 0:48:16
Let me just review. Here's something we haven't played yet. Again, we have special premiere. One is the Uncaber ACD. One is the Shut Up Little Man CD. Which maybe I'll just play a little clip of that real fast. It's a very odd CD. These two guys who would fight all the time. And it's sort of audio veritate recorded by their neighbors next door as these two men would scream at each other. Here we go. 
SPEAKER 6 0:48:41
Uh... So why would I worry about it? For God's sake Shut Up Little Man. I don't want to watch you cut your own nails. I would like to have eaten turned off the stove, but it's because of you talking about toenails. 
SPEAKER 4 0:49:04
Now I should say the music in there is actually from our little mix that we did on the show. And this is one of those things that I tried to get a sense of just in a brief little clip. Another thing we're giving away is recent work by beloved MPR commentator David Saderis. And that includes work that he's done here on your radio play house. That is some of the radio plays he's done with the sister Amy and other actors. And this piece, this half hour hitchhiking story that he told. Here's one little brief, brief episode from that story. 
SPEAKER 3 0:49:35
You've got an interminable ride with a pantyhose salesman who spent six hours saying you just take and take, don't you? Don't you? Out there with your thumb in the air, not a care in the world, grabbing whatever you can get. Yes, sir, you take and you take until you're ready to burst. But what about given? The jivr thing about that? Of course not. You're too busy taking. Me, I'm what you call a tax payer. Tax, it's a tariff that working people have to pay so that someone like you can enjoy a life leisure. I give and I give until I've got nothing left. Then I turn right around and I give some more. I give and give to all of Uncle Sam's little takers. And I've been thinking that maybe it's about time I get a little something in return. Yes, indeed. Maybe it's time we try that shoe on the other foot for a change. You, my young friend, are going to wash my car inside and out and you're going to pay for it. 
SPEAKER 4 0:50:32
Anyway, again, the number if you want this is this very odd collection of stories from David Sidaris. 832-316-O, the collection includes the story that we're going to hear at the end of this evening show. 
SPEAKER 8 0:50:43
312-832-316-O, call now to pledge your support for your radio playhouse, a place where you hear David Sidaris' stories in their entirety. The uncut versions you will get on that cassette that you can get for a $60 pledge. 312-832-316-0, be patient and let that phone ring and we will get to you as soon as we can. 
SPEAKER 4 0:51:06
We put a lot of effort into this show to bring you unusual stories that you will not hear anywhere else. And we want your support. We want your support. We were trying to find a premium that you would enjoy and could get nowhere else. And so please, please call. Please call and join our front-end little party here. And I guess that's it. 832-316-0. 
SPEAKER 8 0:51:28
312-832-316-O and take it. All right. 
SPEAKER 4 0:51:33
All right. Well, act four. Act four of this evening's program is called Another Dave. And this is a story by David Sidaris, frequent morning edition commentator member of the Pine Tree Gang contributor to this program. And this is a story of ultimate Machiavelli in Machiavelli in scheming. It's kind of an endpoint as to how far you can go. It's called The Last Time You'll Ever Hear From Me. It's a story and it's read by Sarah Tire. 
SPEAKER 7 0:51:59
Dear friends and family, by the time you receive this letter, I will be dead. Those of you attending this service are sitting quietly holding a beautiful paperweight, a gift from the collection which in life had been my pride and joy. You turn the paperweight over in your hands. Look deep inside at the object embedded in the glass, be it a rose or scorpion, whatever. And through your tears you ask, what is death like? By this time I certainly know the answer to that question, but I'm unable to give details. No only that I will one day meet you upon the grassy plains of heaven, where, with the exception of Randy Sykes and a net kelper, I will be tickled to embrace you and catch up on all the news. If my instructions were followed the way I wanted them to be, see attached instruction envelope number one. This letter is being read to you from the pulpit of the simple shepherd church of Christ by my best friend, Ali Nmiki. Hi Ali, who is wearing the long sleeve Lisa Montino designer dress I left behind that always looks so good on me. Ali, I hope you either lost some weight or took it out some on the sides or you're not going to be able to breathe. Also remember it needs to be dry cleaned. I know how you and your family love to skimp, but please don't listen to what anyone says about Woolat. Dry clean. Most of you are probably wondering why I did it. You're whispering, well Lord, why take Trish Moody? Trish was a ray of bright sunshine, always so up and perky and full of love, pretty too, just as smart and sweet and pretty as they come. You're probably shaking your heads and thinking there's plenty of people a lot worse than Trish Moody. There's her former excuse for a boyfriend, Randy Sykes, for example. The boyfriend who, after Trish accidentally backed her car over his dog, practically beat her senseless. He beat her with words, but still it might as well have been with his fists. He struck her again and again with words and names such as manipulative, jealous, childish, and others I wouldn't justify in print. The dog's death was a tragic accident, but perhaps also a blessing in disguise, as Randy tended to spend entirely too much time with it. What did Trish's mother say when her daughter, heartbroken over her breakup with Randy, came to her in search of love and understanding? If you're looking for sympathy, you can find it between sob, story, and syphilis in the dictionary. Perhaps my mother can live with slogans such as this. I know I can't. Neither can I live surrounded by friends such as Annette Kelper, poor Chubby Annette Kelper, who desperately tries to pretend that nobody notices the fact that she's balding on top of her head. That's right. Look closely, balding, just like a man. Perhaps Randy feels sorry for Chrome, Dom, Annette. Maybe that's why he was seen twice in her company in a single five-day period. Seen standing together in the parking lot of the Burger Tabernacle, her home away from home, and seen huddled together, laughing on the escalator of the Crap Tree Valley Mall. Annette, my supposed best friend, who secretly wanted and coveted everything I owned. Is everyone on Earth as two-faced as Annette Kelper? Is everyone as cruel as Randy Sykes? I think not. Most of you, the loved ones I left behind, are simple, devoted people. I urge you now to take a look around the room. Are Randy Sykes and Annette sitting in the audience? Are they shifting uncomfortably in the pew, shielding their faces with the eight and a half by eleven photograph of me? I had reproduced to serve as a memento of this occasion. I lean, read this part real fast before they have a chance to leave. Randy Sykes' drip is a size of my little finger, and that's when it's hard. And I'm not counting the nail just a finger. He had sex two times with a boy at Camp T. Condoroga when he was in junior high school. Maybe that explains why he loves it when somebody sticks their finger up his coup-von. He used to beg me to do that, but I refused. I said, no way, Randy. He used to do it to himself all the time. That's why I never held hands with him. His hands stink. He secretly thinks he looks like Marlon Brando, but take a good look. A young Marlon Perkins is more like it. Maybe that's what he sees in Annette Kelper. He's an animal lover. She used to come to my house crying. Her breast milling a mile off like her uncle's drip. She said he forced her, but that's like, because you don't force a horse, and that's what she is a whore. And that Randy deserves each other. Drift breath and stink your finger. Run up and down, escalator. Crap, tree valley. Up and down. Up and down. Fancy little shut-cut. Let's look at them. Take a good hard look at them. It's their fault I'm dead. They aren't a blame. I urge you now to take those paperweights and stone them. Release your anger. The Bible says it's all right to cast the first stone if someone dead is dealing you to do it. And I'm telling you now. Pretend the paperweights are stones and cast them upon the guilty. I put aside my savings to pay for the damages to the walls and windows. It's money I was saving from our wedding. And there's plenty of it. So, throw. Hurt them the way they hurt me. Kill them. Nobody will hold you responsible. Kill them. I lean. I'm going to allow a few minutes here because it might take a while for certain people to get into the swing of it. Pop in the cassette, Mark, stoning, and wait until both Randy and Annette are lifeless. Wait until everyone is finished with their paperweights. And then I want you to hand the microphone over to my mother. Watch the way she trembles and stutters. And remember every gesture as if you 
SPEAKER 4 0:57:50
were me. Well, eat three, two, three, one, six, zero. Show us your heart. Well, I guess you're not. I am here. You know, our volunteers are so resourceful. And are they getting phone calls in? We they are taking your phone calls now at three, one, two, eight, three, two, three, one, six, zero. Okay, you can get that story, which was from David Sidaris' book, Barrel Fever, Read by Sarah Thierry. Plus, also lots of other David Sidaris work a 90 minute cassette of full of all sorts of stuff for just $60. $360. 832-316-0. Or the two CDs that we've been plugging all hour. I should also mention that David is going to be here in Chicago live this coming Saturday night at the Park West for Millie's Orkid Show. You might want to go see him there. Cool. Yeah. 312-832-316-0 call now and what, Ira? And in pledge, your support. Remember, this is the only time you're going to get during the drive to get most of these premium and supersize it. Super size it. Well, funding for this program has been provided by the John D. and Catherine team, a Carthor Foundation. The Elizabeth F. Cheney Foundation, the National Endowment for the Arts and the Members of WBEZ Chicago. And does that list include you? Today's program was produced by Peter Cliony and myself with Dolores Wilbur, at least, Spiegel and Nancy Updike. Contributing Editor Jack Hit, Margie Rocklin and Paul Tuff. Paul Tuff did the fabulous original interview with Bob, featured in the first half of this program, WBEZ Management Oversight by Tori Malatia. Special thanks tonight to Minoli Weatherall, who recorded Sarah Thierry in New York City, to Betsy and Glidey at Pledge Central, to the volunteers, to the contributors, to Shirley Jihad, to Allen Bill for the fabulous studio work, to buy a tape of this or other playhouse shows, call us at WBEZ 832-3380 or email us. Radioatwell.com, we broadcast Bradley from WBEZ Chicago, we'll be back next week, with more stories of this American life. See then. 